{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2638
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28940\viewh14220\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Zoom meeting 220516\
\
TODO. Make general comment on relevance to Coq, and footnote that we should write more as work on that progresses.\
\
Univalent mathematics is for pure mathematics, then there is more need for universe polymorphism (categories, schemes, etc)\
\
Universe polymorphism in Agda came in 2010 roughly. Someone thought it was badly needed.\
\
Facts should be expressed in terms of \'93general universe\'94\
\
Should we say something about Mike Shulman\'92s blogpost?\
\
https://proofassistants.stackexchange.com/questions/1219/has-anyone-ever-accidentally-proven-a-false-theorem-with-type-in-type\
\
TODO: Thierry will write something and mail it.\
\
TODO: If we have cumulativity, do we need the max-operation?\
\
Zoom meeting 220511\
\
What about mentioning something about the interaction with Matthieu Sozeau concerning the implementation and verification of the algorithm and experiments for type-checking Coq-libraries? Comment about Coq needing 4 universes.\
\
Peter comments 220429.\
\
page 1\
\
The current text makes it sound as though Martin-L\'f6f worked in simple type theory? In order to formulate even the inconsistent dependent type theory you need to start with structural rules for dependent types.\
\
What about quoting Shulman about universe use in hott?\
\
3\
\
I would like to separate the general rules, and the rules for Pi, Sigma, and N.\
Remark that we have a way to commonly write transitivity and symmetry.\
\
Congruence rules for natrec and J. Why Id A a0 a1 but natrec(C,a,g)? Congruence rules?\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 TODO (Marc): Reorganize rules. We wish to present a complete system. Also deal with the choice of raw syntax.\
Should we write Id A a b or Id(A,a,b), etc? Martin: nowadays mathematicians read type theory papers, so maybe the latter?\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
4\
\
Congruence rules for T? Congruence rules for N and Id inside U_n\
\
Comment on only having N0 : U0 and not at the other levels?\
\
Thierry: to have uniqueness of types\
\
TODO: Marc will do this.\
\
Is it really a problem to duplicate definitions? We could have a proof assistant that works with external natural numbers as levels,\
\
N : U_n (where n would be a metalanguage variable)\
\
TODO: Peter makes a slight weakening of the current statement.\
\
4\
\
Last line \'93for example\'94. We have given up the aim of presenting all rules? (This is what is taken care of nicely by defining our theory as the initial cwf (with extra structure) indexed over a ucwf of levels.\
\
TODO: This is also part of Marc\'92s task. We should not write all rules, but be explicit about this.\
\
5 \
\
The comment about Voevodsky\'92s rule assumes that the reader already understands that we have a generalized algebraic theory corresponding to our system.\
\
The following sentence needs to be strengthened:\
\'93Level is not a type, but it is essential to be able to state operations polymorphic in the levels \'93\
since we can already state operations polymorphic in levels but not internally.\
I suggest to change the order and put the example first.\
6\
The two footnotes should be integrated in the text.\
Another notion of consistency is that it has a model in natural numbers. Isn\'92t that closer to what you prove? Or do you actually prove the loop property?\
What about adding Shulman\'92s blogpost here?\
7 \
line 2 \'93holds\'94 should be \'93is consistent\'94\
The whole constraint system is justified by being \'93more readable\'94\
8\
TODO can be taken away.\
The term \'93uniform word problem\'94 should be explained. I guess it is in the two first paragraph of 5.2.\
It is not clear what Theorem 5.1 means precisely.\
\'93develops\'94 -> \'93developed\'94: use present or past tense consistently.\
9 \
It is not explained what \'93full reflection\'94 means.\
\
\
\
\
________________________________________\
From: Thierry Coquand\
Sent: Friday, April 29, 2022 8:45 AM\
To: Peter Dybjer\
Cc: Marc Bezem; Martin Escardo\
Subject: Re: discussion\
\
\'a0Unfortunately I will not be able to attend the meeting today (I have to drive\'a0 to Malm\'f6, and it was not completely decided until this morning at what time, but this will be at the same time); please go ahead.\
\'a0Best, Thierry\
\
\
> On 28 Apr 2022, at 13:21, Peter Dybjer <peterd@chalmers.se> wrote:\
>\
> I noted the following comment by Mike Shulman:\
>\
> "In the early days of homotopy type theory, we were starting to use multiple universes in ways that, I believe, had rarely been done before in type theory."}